#summary This page is intended for reprotool developers as a guide to set their environment.

Note:The following steps were tested on _Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Lucid Lynx, kernel 2.6.32-27-generic i686 with 4GiB RAM_.

Table of contents:
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Summary =
  * Install Eclipse
  * Install XText (contains MWE2)
  * Install Window Builder Pro plugin
  * Install GEF Zest Visualisation Toolkit plugin
  * (Optional) Install Subclipse SVN plugin
  * Checkout the reprotool SVN repository
  * Run REPROTOOL eclipse application


= Installation Details =

== Eclipse ==
Download and install Eclipse Indigo 3.7 from http://eclipse.org/downloads/, choose
_Eclipse Modeling Tools (includes Incubating components)_.
(download zip/gz, unpack to dir e.g. "eclipse-reprotool")

== XText (contains MWE2) ==
In Eclipse Menu: `Help -> Install Modeling Components`, search for XText and click install. The MWE2 plugins are needed for code generation separating hand-written code from genrated code.
This approach is inspired by Moritz Eysholdt's presentation at ECLIPSECON'11: http://www.slideshare.net/meysholdt/codegeneration-goodies

== Window Builder Pro (optional) ==
This step is optional, Window Builder Pro is used for visual development of GUI parts (dialogs, perspectives,...).
Install the plugin from update site (`Help -> Install new software`), enter location http://dl.google.com/eclipse/inst/d2wbpro/latest/3.6 ([http://code.google.com/intl/cs-CZ/javadevtools/download-wbpro.html also described here])

Select `SWT Designer Core`, `SWT Designer SWT_AWT Support` and `WindowBuilder GroupLayout Support`. 

If you plan to develop GUI, select also `SWT Designer` (these packages are optional). Other modules shouldn't be needed.

== GEF Zest Visualization Toolkit ==
This plugin is required for rendering graphs.
Open `Help->Update` select `http://download.eclipse.org/tools/gef/updates/milestones/` update site and search for "zest". install package `Graphical Editing Framework Zest Visualization Toolkit` version 1.3.0 or newer.

== Subclipse SVN plugin (optional) ==
This step is optional, you could easily work with command-line-based SVN client.
~~To install Subclipse go to `Help -> Eclipse Marketplace` and search for "Subclipse".~~
Install Subclipse from update site http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.6.x (`help -> install new software`).

Subclipse requires native JavaHL library. This can be installed on Ubuntu using: `sudo apt-get install libsvn-java`

*Note*: If imported projects are not recognized as connected to SVN, try checkout with older version of the svn client. Problem occured with subclipse 1.6.x version and [http://tortoisesvn.net/ tortoise svn] version 1.7.x. Switch to older 1.6.x tortoise svn client solved the problem.

== !WireframeSketcher plugin (optional) ==
This step is optional, [http://wireframesketcher.com WireframeSketcher] is tool for creation of GUI wireframes (see images in [ProcasorToEclipseGuiMapping]).
To install !WireframeSketcher go to `Help -> Install new software` and add http://wireframesketcher.com/updates update site.

Import eclipse project with sketches into workspace from `documentation/ReproToolSketchProject`. Directory `documentation/screens` is intended for batch export of sketches to images.

*Note*: !WireframeSketcher is paid commercial software freeware, trial version was used to create GUI wireframes. Look at http://wireframesketcher.com/install.html for limitations and legal notices.


= Project Setup Details =
The whole SVN structure can be checked out manually from SVN to an external directory outside of the Eclipse workspace. Once checked out, the reprotool sub-projects can be separately imported to your Eclipse workspace using `File -> Import -> General -> Existing Projects into Workspace`. This approach might seem more complicated but it gives you additional flexibility and can also be easily combined with the Subclipse SVN plugin.

Checkout project sources as described on
[http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/reprotool/source/checkout Checkout] page.

Pick a sub-projects to import, i.e. `modules/ide` and `modules/ReprotoolModel`. Import projects to your workspace as described above: `File -> Import -> General -> Existing Projects into Workspace`. Navigate to the sub-projects directory (e.g. `modules/ide`). Also make sure the _Copy projects into workspace_ checkbox *is not checked* because we *don't want to copy* the project's content to the workspace, we want to modify the original files in the checked-out directory.

In `reprotool.fm.nusmv` project right click on `nusmvtools-dependencies.psf` and select `Import Project Set...`. This step will checkout svn projects from external NuSVN repository.

= Generating source files from model =
In `reprotool.model` project right click on `src/reprotool.model/reprotool.model.mwe2` file, select `Run As -> MWE2 Workflow`. Model source files will be generated.

Double click on `model/reprotool.model.genmodel` and in opened editor right click on `Reprotool` root node. Select `Generate Edit Code` and `Generate Editor Code`.

= Running the application =
Try launching the plugin: Double click on `plugin.xml` and push play button in upper right corner. New instance of eclipse should start, inside this started IDE select `Window -> Open perspective -> Other -> reprotool`.